okay and we are on the record so we are
convening the June July 2nd 2024 meeting
of the endover charter revision
Commission in attendance are myself jod
gross Carol Lee Jeff Maguire Adrien
mandaville and Karen Mador absent is
Patricia
billing um I am at this point going to
hand off moderation of the rest of the
meeting to the uh Vice chair Carol Lee
so Carol you can take it
away okay thank you
Bob so first item is public
speak Canon you're our only member of
the public do you have anything to say
uh very quickly just two things um it
would be great if the meeting minutes
were posted on the town website
um I tried to even find the agenda for
tonight's meeting and the last one is
from June 18th um and number two like I
said last time and Bobby I know you
weren't here welcome back um I think it
would be really great if there was an
ongoing document available to the public
that showed that the changes that you
all have already um recommended and
voted on especially as we're in July now
and as far as I know there may be a
public hearing two weeks from now um
before you have to do your draft report
so I think it's really important to get
it out as soon as possible thanks very
much and the next item is the approval
of last week's
minutes I'll make a motion to approve
last week's minutes
second any comments or discussion
no all in
favor I
I and just just one thing Carol
um um I wanted in public speak I I want
to sit there and and really what Shannon
said is we've talked about that in these
meetings to sit there and have a list
the things we've worked on the things we
voted on and um um it would really that
would really be helpful and it should be
posted at all times on the website to
just say Hey listen here's here's the
charter commission status report this is
what we're out we haven't dealt with
these issues and we've talked about not
doing these issues so if we can all work
to get that together for next week that
would
be and
the next um items now I know Jody when
we had talked last week with the board
of
Selectmen and you said you didn't want
to see any changes made to that and
that's fine but we didn't vote on that
or any discussion so that's something
that's still out there hanging and then
our last thing would just be the
ordinances with jet so I I don't know if
you want to make a motion on
because that was one of the only things
that the public put forward was looking
at that with the bo select looking at
increasing the number or calling them
the select
board um not having a first select and I
know last week you said you just wanted
to leave it as it
was that's still my position Carol I
don't think any of those that you
mentioned
are um um worthy of
my support to bring forward a motion
based off of the research and quite
frankly the discussion that we've had on
it informally at the committee
meetings right but I'm just saying to
make a motion that because we did you
did do all the work on researching it so
if you just make a motion to keep it
exactly as it is then this way at least
we show that we've addressed
that I don't I don't you know I'm no no
expert with Robert's Rules of
parliamentary procedure but I don't
think that's how it works I think if you
want something accomplished you you
motion for it
otherwise you you know we I researched
if and I presented that research if
there was someone on the board that
wanted to make or commission that wanted
to make a motion based off of that they
could but um know there there are lots
of other things quite honestly that we
we called early just based on a lot less
research we kind of said no so I I guess
I don't feel like we should motion for
something unless we want it to
happen Okay I just I know those I know
what you're talking about like with
going with the Town Council but we just
when Bob took the poll of everyone that
was when it was taken off the table so
that was just an assignment but if you
feel that way that's fine then the only
thing we have to cover tonight is Jeff's
Ordinance one more thing before we leave
the the that last issue as I understand
it what what Jody is saying is correct
we can vote in the affirmative to move
forward we can let it die in committee
you know by not approving it or we could
also affirmatively deny it that is to
say we could all say together okay we
reject any of the proposed changes and
that's how we go on record
I'm pretty sure those are like the three
options that we could face at this
point it makes sense to me Bob and I you
know on this one I'm just going to let
those die on the
vine or or quite frankly car Carol to
your other point maybe maybe there's a
future Charter commission that really
has the time to untangle those okay yeah
because those were a little thorny as
what we discovered when we scratched
them to the surface where we're candidly
we've done some great work as this
committee right I know we we increased
some limits on some dollars we're um we
you know we voted to move the town clerk
to um an actual hired position we've you
know we've we we've tried to streamline
timing for our budget as a town and RAM
um you know there you know we're going
to tackle ordinances these are some
great things and so we should be I I'm
proud of the work we've done in such a
short period of
time
seconded great all right so we'll let
Jeff go up with the
ordinances um before we talk about
ordinances can we do um just some
housekeeping things at least from my end
Carol like timing wise because we do
have some things so um um just so
everybody here is is I I would I would
recommend that the committee um provides
to the town attorney uh after this
meeting everything that's been approved
and all the documentation we have which
is what we need to do to work together
to build what Shannon has asked for
which is accurate but we should get
everything to the town attorney for this
week Bob and allow him to come back to
us next week with a rough draft for us
to review at our next meeting which
would be July 9th correct correct and
then we could have a public hearing on
the 16th which would put us in the
timeline for the 22nd having everything
to the to select all right so I'm just
asking that everybody on this meeting
understands that that should be the
timeline that we follow to get to the
public hearing because we have to Carol
and and you know this better than I do
and I'm just assuming there's probably a
a notice on that public hearing that we
have to get out in front of and how long
is that notice requirement five days
before so what we could do is after
we're done making the decision on the
proposed
ordinances changes in the ordinances
that you're going to present tonight we
could set the date for the public
hearing on the
16th which would be great then we
actually have the date and I can get
everything over to Dennis tomorrow
because I've already typed everything up
that you proposed last week so unless
there's any
changes with what you emailed over that
document is set to go over to per
perfect so a after this meeting and
after we decide what we're doing with
the ordinance whether we approve it or
not like so if we approve it whatever
changes are made if you could send that
over to everybody what you've already
done Carol is send it over and then we
can all read that and then you know even
by email if we just say okay we're good
with this send that to Dennis Dennis
then gets it back to us before our next
meeting we review it before our next
meeting vote to to vote in the
affirmative that we're all good with all
of what it's written and then we sit
there and and the public hearing's
already scheduled and Bob that's just me
thinking you know I was going through
the timeline in my head earlier today
I'm like it kind of lines up we get
everything done today decide if we're
good next week we review following week
we have the public hearing then it's to
the board of Selectmen for the 22nd
which was the the date that we had
selected now listen we have a board of
Select meeting next week and if
everybody on this meeting believes we
should push it off a little bit we can
ask for a little delay on that but I
personally would rather just hit the
timelines and be moving on so I think
it's just contingent on Dennis being
able to uh get it done over the holiday
weekend got it yep no problem okay um I
had sent
um an email to everyone at our
previously regarding
um uh ordinance sections and this this
what I had done was based upon our
conversations we were having some
discussions regarding um timing of um
implementation and so if um I'm not sure
if anybody has any specific issues
related to any of the terminology or the
timelines but I'll sit there and give
you the the important stuff as I see it
so um there was uh there would be an
action by the board of Selectmen to um
uh put forth an an uh an ordinance that
ordinance would then um be uh be um put
forth to the town and to the residents
and then there could be petition that
would be filed uh to the town clerk
within 50 days or 20 days excuse me and
the um the issue would be 5% of of which
again I like numbers 5% of the
electorate or 50 electors so basically
it's it's 50 signatures and addresses of
registered voters could take any
ordinance and would push that ordinance
out no ordinance would ever go into
effect for 45 days so what that would
allow to happen is two Board of
selecting meetings would
be uh would be in place before it it is
um before uh uh an ordinance would go
into place so anyone from the community
who did not like that could sit there
and come to the board of Selectmen and
sit there and at least have a second
meeting to be able to voice their
displeasure and allow the board of
Selectmen to change anything that
they've already done um and then if you
actually get 50
signatures what we talked about to make
everything as easy as possible the
ordinance would be held until the next
November election and then the the
ordinance would be voted on by the town
so any 50 residents who don't like an
ordinance could sit there and file a
petition that petition would then move
the ordinance once approved by Carol
would go back to the board of Select
would move that ordinance to the next
general election for a
referendum and then the rest of the town
would be able to vote on it in either in
the positive or the negative to allow it
to go to allow it to go into effect so
worst case
scenario uh the board of selectman takes
a swing at an ordinance uh at their
December meeting
and uh a group of residents or voters
don't like that ordinance they would get
50 signatures and then that that
ordinance would be held in AB bance
until the November election when it
would be voted on by the town so we're
not we're not doing any special meetings
we're not calling and getting people to
have to come we're just holding all of
that off and I think what I did was
incorporate everything that everybody
had talked about in the last meeting
when we discussed this so it was 45 days
for implementation the petition could
sit there and be placed out there 50
voters or 50 electors is the round
number to sit there and put forth a
petition
and I think I I went through and and
gave um
a sections of this that really met all
of the criteria that we had discussed
when we did this probably two or three
weeks ago
so anybody have any questions about
anything specific that was written or
anybody want to change anything because
this is not about um I mean if somebody
wants something changed we can put it in
here because it's just a way to make us
more efficient it has nothing to do with
you know concerns that the board of
Selectmen in power and any of that stuff
it's just if we want to pass an
ordinance
to um deal with pet waste at the field
or on any public facility
um we shouldn't have to call a special
Town meting meing to enact that I have a
question about the mechanics and the
timing I just want to make sure that I
understand this correctly so the board
of selecton passes an
ordinance is there once once that
ordinance has been passed is there a
certain time period a certain window
within which the public if they have
objections has to act with a
petition and that's that's 45 days that
was 20 days 20 days okay 20 days so if
the public does not act within the 20
days of the passing that's it the
ordinance is good and it's not going to
be challenged again or can they bring up
a petition at any point in the future to
challenge that
ordinance well I'd asked that question
honestly and I had thought about that
can they challenge at any point in time
the issue of the 45 days to me gives the
community if somebody misses that
deadline they could come to this next
meeting of the board of selectman
because if I if I'm correct and I and I
believe it the board of Selectmen at any
point in time can um enact or should be
able to enact or retract an ordinance
right now the community would have the
same issues if if an ordinance was
retracted that 50 people in the
community don't want to be taken off the
books then they could file a petition as
well to sit there and go in the opposite
direction B so it would it goes both
ways but that's why I believe the 45
days is really good because what you're
doing is before it is enacted the board
of Selectmen has to have a second
meeting to show up and take comments
from the public about it and they might
sit there and some members of the board
of s might sit there and go you know
maybe we didn't think this through
correctly and they can they can retract
the ordinance
so the issue ends up being there there
there is something that I I was looking
at as far as 20 days or 30 days or 45
days to file the petition and I believe
there's some there's some issues related
to the number of days that you you can
have now it's usually about
implementation I believe um Carol I
believe in the last section when we did
the town meeting it was immediately
after the town meeting that the
ordinance went to effect I I do believe
that that's no you have to publish the
ordinance or a portion of it in the
paper and then it becomes effective 21
days after
publicated right so so that's even for
us even the 45 days is still going to
extend out to 66
days because we're still going to have
to publish
it or or we publish it in the
beginning like the 21 days the way that
the charter is written that those 20
days for someone to petition if they
don't
agree that's the 21 days that have been
publish the ordinance so my only concern
with that
is this stuff is
really it's Broad and sweeping it gives
the board of Selectmen a lot of power
and if people aren't following board
select meeting like with currently with
the town meeting we have to send a
notice to
everyone you know whether it's 45 people
or 25 people go out let's send everyone
is notified let's send let's put that in
here that we send a notice to everybody
I mean this is not this
is I I have no problem like if Carol if
you sit there and say we should notice
the community that there's an ordinance
being considered let's send it out I
mean the only thing I'm say section
three for is
to says that you can approve repeal or
modify any prior ordinance then section
402b you can enact you can create modify
and abolish
agents so even those agencies I
identified by but that but that's
already in
there that you can oh no no no you're
right you're right but that word was in
there that's what I was saying but um
right I'm just saying I'm reading your
wording so you're not you're not wrong
you're not wrong it was I was crossing
out the town meeting creation
consolidation modification or abolishing
um I mean I've read a lot of other towns
um Carters and that
and they do put things I understand the
pet was has been a big thing up at the
field but there are other towns that
have put in there with a description of
minor ordinances they give examples of
those minor ordinances so one of the
towns said to maintain public health and
safety zoning behavior and general
welfare and then they give examples are
noise snow removal pet restrictions
building and Zoning RS I mean there is a
way to Greater Define um
the ordinance is that's that's all I'm
concerned with because a lot of people
don't they don't follow the board of
Select you know and then the 20 days
could pass I hear what you're saying
that you know maybe they could come to
another Board of selectman meeting bring
it up and ask for it to be reviewed or
petitioned so Carol what to Jeff had
said that um he was amenable to to
adding a
notification would that suffice to what
you're you're concerned about uh you
said that they don't follow would that
would that be more comfortable for you
so you're you're saying to mail out the
notice like you do that you're having a
public hearing on the ordinance but
again I mean the people would have the
right to vote at that public hearing
at least we've taken a positive step
towards actively notifying them rather
than them requiring you know passively
following so every month the board is
Select meeting okay I I do see that so
and Carol just to make it even
clearer it's 21 days from the time that
the notice is received don't even make
it 21 days from let's not make it 21
days from the time that the Board of
Selectmen votes go the board of
Selectmen votes on an ordinance the
ordinance information is sent out to the
the community in total in total
everybody gets it we mail it to
everybody so that's our cost is that
mailing right and we mail it to everyone
and they get to read it and in the
notice is is information as to the
timing that they have to sit there
and question it they don't have to come
to a Tom meeting they don't have to do
anything they have to put their their
name on a signature a form that sits
there and says hey I I don't agree with
this ordinance and listen I don't think
I mean I I only speak for myself there's
no reason in my mind to create any drama
or any issues about passing an ordinance
that's going to cause me or the board of
selectman any
undo I don't think any of us need it and
I don't think any of us want it and so I
Carol I I would sit there and say if
that is important I'm all for it let's
do it all right so send a mailer out
before the board of Select meeting no
the board of the board of Selectmen
votes so the the way that I think it
would work Board of Selectmen Board of
Selectmen votes to um um has you know
and this would probably have to take
multiple means border of Select would go
through say they're thinking about doing
an ordinance they bring the language
forward
they would vote to approve the language
once the language is approved by the
board of
Selectmen uh a
notice would be sent within the next
seven days out to the public and then
the day that the public receives it and
and what we do is we say we send one to
the town clerk's office and the day you
receive it is the day you check it in
off of the mail and then you sit there
and say that the community has 21 days
or 20 days to to P to put a petition
forth to to move that to referendum
because that's what this whole thing is
doing it's not it's not a negative or if
if the community thinks that we've
overstepped our
bounds they then put forth a petition to
move it to referendum to have everyone
in the town vote on it at the next
general
election so does that work for you
Carol well and the that's the only other
thing too because sometimes the general
election if they're petitioning in
December we're going to have them P off
for 11 months we wouldn't have a special
referendum no the whole point is not to
spend any more money than is absolutely
necessary not to do things in special
format so my whole goal was to try to
move everything to November into an
election time so the community would
have to vote on it if there was a
problem and Carol that the the in my
head a board would want to sit there and
pick a timeline like um
July to sit there and potentially pass
ordinances but but realistically jof
yeah what you're saying is what we're
saying here is that the board of
Selectmen
would put forward language at a meeting
they'd vote on it and you know the
public would have um what that we would
have a mailer go out within seven days
am I hearing this correctly so mailer
goes out within seven days from
reception at you know and they'd have is
it 45 days is that correct Jee uh 20 20
some odd days to file the petition 45
days for the the ordinance to be in okay
so there seven days to notice and then
21 days to to get a petition together
correct uh can we have the 21 we have
the 21 days be effective
from the reception of the of the notice
by the by the clerk yeah so it's 20 it
was 20 days 21 days um from
receipt of town
mailer by town clerk's office yep and
then Carol you then play out play play
out what 50 people showed up within that
20 day if I showed up with a petition
with 50 signatures in 18 days to Carol
and she said yep that's good what
happens then the implementation of the
ordinance would not move forward it
would go to referendum at the next
general election in
November got it thank you and just to to
do a little bit more what if because
somebody broke brought this up say the
uh the ordinance is passed in December
the public comes up with the requisite
50 signatures a stay is put on it if the
board of Selectmen felt strongly enough
about it and they got enough coherent
feedback from the public they presumably
could withdraw the ordinance as it had
been passed redraft it and try to repass
it in such a way so that it doesn't have
to wait until next November to be to be
voted on that's that that is accurate p
and a smart efficient way to go at it if
the wording is wrong you Chang the
wording and you listen to the community
members who sat there and opposed the
ordinance and rewrite
it move it forth move it forth again and
if they do the same thing again then you
you as a Bo a board of Selectmen would
sit there and determine whether they
want to rewrite it again or whether they
want to sit there and just go to
referendum but again it's a referendum
in a normal election cycle we're not
asking for anything special we're not
asking for um money to be
spent and we're just moving
on um just for clarification could that
you said we saying normal election
cycle instead of having the board have
to to wait the whole year could they
theoretically put it on the put it on a
a budget referendum that's what I was
just going to say I I know we can't
discuss anything other than the budget
at the budget but I don't think that
there's any problem putting
questions on the
budget
um I have no problem with that because
most people well like Carol how many
people came and voted for the budget
referendum
how many how many votes did we get we
two to 3 two to 300 well but hopefully
those numbers will go up when they're
together as well you know
right I I have no problem changing that
so it would be um
um so as opposed to having language in
that it would be on November election it
would be any regularly scheduled
referendum I I like that idea
where did I put
that one second I gotta look at
something I'm looking at your hat Jeff
is that a Boston hat or a Celtics hat
I'm kind of confused it's a it's a it's
a Celtic hat um it's a Red Sox Celtic
hat it's a Boston I don't know I don't
know the teams well enough I'm sorry no
I don't either it's green I don't know
if it's a Red Sox um um St Patrick's Day
hat
or I would have warned my Whalers hat
I'm with you Bob I'm a whaler fan so I
named my my wife named our dog after a
Harford wher so in the section um um it
was item two in Section 3
301a uh we would change the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in the
month of November to uh the first
regularly
scheduled
townwide
referendum and we and Carol the only
thing we need to do is
um we need
to determine if we can actually put
questions on the ballot during the
budget
referendum do you think that's okay have
you ever done that before
well I mean we have our two non-binding
advisory questions have you know Ram has
put questions on there too
so okay I honestly I like that because
what it does is it gives you two
opportunities for right an ordinance it
gives you a May and and it's split down
the middle it's May and November it's
probably six months if you have
something more pressing this way you
know right and referendums are us are
home
rules whatever the town attorney
is okay I like I like that because
then you know it gives you a six-month
window between potential elections that
we we have to we are committed as a town
to hold we're going to be committed to
hold the budget referendum and then
we're going to be committed to hold um a
a referendum or a vote in November so
there's nothing extra special being done
we're not we're not requiring special
meetings we're not requiring a special R
referendum to be held it's it's a
normal uh reg next regularly scheduled
referendum you know in May and we maybe
we even labeled it in in May or
November and we we leave it like
that okay I'll I'll get that done is
there anything else that anyone wants to
change or modify talk
about okay so just so I'm I'm clear
um we're gonna say in section
um we're gonna SE say in section
31 3012 right because it the last line
it says
um special referendum to be conducted
simultaneous with the ele and regular
schedule to be held on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in the month of
November or the next scheduled
referendum um well you want the wording
different I would just go next scheduled
regularly scheduled
referendum should we do we want to call
it a referendum or election
it would be a referendum if the next the
next regular regular
regularly
[Music]
scheduled
townwide
vote
in
either May or
November does that make that's specific
enough
so we would we so
U see but it's not in uh it's not in
cooperation I I will there's there's
there's some wording that needs to be
changed but is is the is the thought is
that is that terminology that I use so
what I what we would do so that last
that
last um sentence Carol will come out and
it will say uh you know because I don't
think the the budget vote is enough is
is the budget vote vote an office of the
Secretary of State kind of thing Carol
it's not is
it sorry I was muted no that's home okay
so so that wording has to be changed and
I'm not sure what it needs to be changed
to but what we're gonna get to
is if if if the town clerk receives this
and we got a whole other section I got
to deal with but if the town clerk
receives a a petition and 50 signatures
are gathered it's going to go and it's
we're going to push it to referendum
that will will coincide the referendum
will be conducted at the next regularly
scheduled townwide vote in either May or
November is that the logic just so
everybody's on the same page
right you can probably entirely strike
the language of in cooperation with the
office of the Secretary of the State and
State law it seems to be of of course it
would be you know within the framework
of state law and local I I I I don't
know that we have to include that
language for this to be okay so I'll get
rid of that I I think that we do have to
especially if it's going to be a
November election
because they have to approve anything
that's going on a state or federal
ballot so that wording should we could
let Dennis tweak whatever has to be
tweak maybe just put it out to him leave
it as it is and just add or the next
regularly
scheduled referendum or
um because that's the only other thing
that's going to be regularly scheduled
We're not gonna we're going to either
have a November election or regularly
scheduled referendum okay so if we sit
there and say if the petition contains
sufficient valid signatures and is
otherwise legally sufficient the
respective date of the ordinance shall
be set aside and the select Mel schedule
a special referendum to be conducted
simultaneously and there's all the state
language that may or may not need to be
in here simultaneously with the next
regularly scheduled townwide vote in
either May or
November okay and you're gonna send that
can I'm gonna send it back to everybody
okay you know you could actually make
this more verose but include everything
basically say uh the effective data of
the ordinance shall be set aside the
selectman shall schedule a special rep
referendum to be conducted
simultaneously with the next townwide
vote regularly scheduled in May comma or
in cooperation with the office of
Secretary of State blah blah blah all
the existing language so you could State
both of those things explicitly
okay and and and uh
um I'm going to definitely let the town
attorney deal with the language that has
to go in there for the Secretary of
State and he'll deal with that but the
the concept of next townwide vote
regularly scheduled in either May or
November is that's the concept we're all
agreeing on okay and we'll vote on it
after this and then the ne the next part
of this was
um we have to change
um a petition must be uh let's
see so I have to figure out where to put
the whole issue of
um 20 days so we you know we need to we
need to put into this a mailer so in the
general a to select men um actually
that's something to repeal let's go to
406 I have to figure out where to put
the issue that Carol raised about um
well Carol didn't raise it but we were
talking about mailers so we want to
specifically State we're gonna send a
mailer
out and the
20-day time limit for repeal um or for
an ordinance petition to be filed
doesn't start until that a petition must
be filed with the office of the town
clerk within 20 20
days
[Music]
after and then I'll put in here after
receipt of
town wide mailer
received by the town
L
office so a petition must be filed with
the office of the town clerk within 20
days after receipt of townwide
mailer um
by and I'm sure that's going to get
changed to the office of the town clerk
by the
office of the Town
Clerk and so and we may need to
somewhere put that the board of
Selectmen is required to
um prepare a mailer and send it out and
then so what we're doing is changing the
time line of the petition so a petition
must be filed to the office of the town
clerk within 20 days after receipt of
townwide mailer by the office of the
town
clerk with final action taken by
the so we're gonna get rid of that
um so that's going to be that's going to
be we're going to take out that final
action taken by the board of Selectmen
I'm going to say a petition must be
filed by the office of the town clerk
within 20 days after receipt of townwide
mailer by the office of the town
clerk uh by 5% or 50 which it's going to
end up being 50 for our entire existence
50 of the electors of the Town whichever
number is less as determined by the last
registry list of the register voters
okay and the petition must confirm with
General statutes and Carol what I would
like to do to make this as EAS easiest
possible for any petitioning group is is
I know I've seen your petitions in the
past right the petitions just meet your
criteria and the criteria of the state
of
Connecticut everybody should have access
to any petition they want and um I'm
assuming Carol that like when people do
petitions in the past they there's a
normal form and people would just go out
and get two signatures on one page and
five signatures on another page and then
you just add them all off and if it
totaled 50 it would be moved to
referendum right correct so everyone
who's BL to circulated peti has to take
a notes that they are obtaining the
signal and they either know the person
or they're verifying who they are when
they're signed okay so and and one thing
we should do is
um we should have um a standard um
notice form and all of the instructions
the basic instructions as to how to file
a petition should be on that notice
that's required to be sent by the board
of selectman so the board of selectman
would print the ordinance and then the
bottom part of the the the information
would be the instructions as to how to
file a petition so that we get the
information to the residence as to okay
Hey listen here's the ordinance here are
the rules if you don't like the
ordinance you can you can create a
petition and you need to go to the town
clerk's office
and um here's step one step two step
three step four yeah some something
basic like s a printed name a signature
we should have a basically um an example
petition page that shows a signature a
printed name and what we're looking for
for you know if whether it's how they're
registered or some way that that shows
that they've verified who they are every
at the top of every page that has
signatures on it you have to have
printed what they're signing they can't
have like a front page and then
signature pages after it every page has
to have what they're signing on it you
know yeah and that and I'm assuming
Adrien that would be something that
would be you know we would direct them
to the town clerk's office and then the
town clerk would sit there and have you
know they have to take both they would
have a necessary documentation as to
what to do right but I I I think it's
important to sit there and let people
know Hey listen um this this this
petition you know can you know it can be
overturned and this is how you have to
do it you go to the town clerk's office
in X Y and Z and then the town clerk
walks you through it and hopefully we
don't have people going to do this and
hopefully any ref any ordinance passed
by the
Board of selectman would be re
reasonable and you know not outlandish
and as with everything in town we hope
for the best and plan for the worst
there you
go so is there anything else that anyone
would like to change because I'm I'm
going to email this back to everybody
you know and then on to you know if it
if it gets approved onto the so we're
gonna vote on this on our next at our
next meeting then no I want to vote on
this now so that it can go to the town
attorney and he can because you're
voting on this now I mean now listen
everything that we're voting on we're
voting on now and I'm assuming we have
to vote on the total language on
everything next
week yes so that's what I guess what I
was saying so you're gonna you're G to
modify this language it'll go into that
document that we get sent earlier by
Carol and we'll vote on the totality of
that document next week correct y okay
so I'm looking for does anyone want you
know the timeline to change does anyone
want the number of Voters to change does
I'm just I think I think we've been very
fair across the board with all of our
ideas here
so Carol you
agree Karen do I mean anybody Bob Jody
does anybody want to make any
adjustments to this before we vot's real
and in a tuna give me a
minute yeah I'm on board silence is uh
Acceptance in my
opinion I think youve done a great job
Jeff any any any other changes Karen I
mean look because listen if there's
anything I'm I'm I don't want this to be
appear in any way to be anything other
than what it is is to be more I'm on
board everything
okay all right then listen I'll make a
motion uh to
uh pass the information related to
ordinances onto the town attorney as
written with the changes to um a town
notice and to also um uh the town notice
being received by the mailer and
changing the language for next regular
scheduled uh townwide vote and I've
emailed that to everybody as we were
talking I'll second
that any further
discussion thank you Bob I was taking
notes
quickly hands over the meeting and then
he runs it from the back seat Well no I
see I see Carol's busy so okay you want
to call the vote Carol you can go ahead
Bob you're doing a great job okay all
those in favor
I I I I okay any
opposed so it carries
since missing one since Patty's not
here okay great job thanks
Jeff and our last agenda item is public
speak um before we go to public speak
thing do we have to do anything or we're
all we're all okay with the timeline
like we don't need to vote we're just
all in agreement that this language that
we voted on for everything else and and
and before we go do we have anything
else we need to consider we want a set
date for the public hearing right for
the 16th we do but does anyone here in
in in attendance want to address any
other issues and we're all if we're all
good we're all good I'm I'm all good I
don't need to address anything else I
just think it should brought up so we
all set with a dor ordinance you know
down at the field and everything that
would end up having to get to the board
of selectman and yes I hope we
are okay all right um then yeah let's
just set up public hearing date so I'll
make a motion that we uh schedule um a
public hearing for the uh the draft of
the charter revision commission to be
held on uh July
16th and this will be in person yes it
would have to be second okay so I gotta
modify I gotta modify the motion uh to
be held at the community room yes
okay and Adrian
second all in favor I I I
I so now we have public
Anon two quick things um thing number
one is Carol I think you sent if if
you're going to have a public hearing on
the 16th and I know you're not supposed
to answer me but does a notice get sent
to all of the town that the public
hearing will be occurring on the
16th uh I don't know that that's
required
um for us to do that can we can we send
can we send a notification out through
the um the text system and the email
system that we have in place that
communicates to the town about road
closures or anything
else Shannon we will we will do that
great I just important enough to know no
no no no not to send a mailer Carol to
send notification out to the community
through this email and text alert
system and great job on legislating Jeff
my only thought um is this just for your
consideration um if you're talking about
truly becoming more efficient and more
streamlined and whatnot whether or not
and except in the case of an emergency
it would be best for the board of
Selectmen to basically have one two
three meetings where it's kind of
understood that you would be considering
and passing ordinances
and then you're not so for example just
to take it out to its worst possible
scenario Board of selectman enacts an
ordinance in
December public notice goes out cost of
the mailer then you get petitioning
members and they say nope we really
don't like this so you got to reconsider
it great three months later same thing
happens and and ongoing whether or not
it might be better for everybody's
purpose to have special Board of
Selectmen meeting meetings where if
you're kind of becoming the legislative
body of the Town um you actually put
forth ordinances that then are voted on
by the town in May and November just a
thought thanks thanks for all of your
work and we'll see if I can make it uh I
definitely will be there the 16th next
week might be the yard goats
bye um just a comment that I want to
enter as a member of the public rather
than as a member of the commission um
not specifically Charter related but
when we talk about sending out
notifications to the town I think about
all of the bills that I get and uh
statements that I get you know from from
Banks and financial institutions and
things like that where I've opted out of
receiving paper stuff through the mail
and have opted into electronic
notification moving forward maybe the
town can do something like that so that
we can drop into a lower bulk rate for
the stuff that we still have to send out
by paper you know if a substantial
enough fraction of the town opts to
receive electronic communications maybe
we can save some
money I'll tell you when I get my paper
taxes because I still haven't gotten
those
yet you're laughing I'm serious I I had
to go online to look and you know to see
what I supposedly ow so oh I got mine
from the town
yesterday I'm still
waiting they might be sending you a few
extra ones adri that's okay yeah either
that or maybe you don't have
any yeah they think I think they want my
20 grand I'm sure
so okay um if there's nothing else I'll
make a motion to adjourn
second hi okay Jody good luck
fishing thanks man great work everyone
we'll see you next week all right night
everyone night night